# Graphs

Utilities used for drawing graphs (possibly in parallel).

The represented data is stored in memory cells organized as a fixed-size
ringbuffer, with the index of latest entry (relative to the start of the buffer)
being passed to the macros.

The graph can be split into multiple partitions, which can be drawn by individual
processors and then flushed to a shared logic display.

## Macros

### `GRAPH_CONFIG(name, attribute, value)`

Configure an attribute with the specified value on a graph configuration with
the specified name.

A list of available attributes is available under [Configuration Attributes](#configuration-attributes).

### `GRAPH_PARTITION_START(name, number)`

Starting index of the partion specified by `number` of the graph specified by `name`.

`number` has to be a numeric literal in the range of [0, PARTITIONS), values
outside this range may produce undefined behaviour.

### `GRAPH_PARTITION_END(name, number)`

First index after the partion specified by `number` of the graph specified by `name`.

`number` has to be a numeric literal in the range of [0, PARTITIONS), values
outside this range may produce undefined behaviour.

### `GRAPH_WIDTH(name)`

Width of the graph specified by `name` in pixels.

### `GRAPH_PADDING(name)`

Required padding around the graph specified by `name` in pixels to mask out any
artifacts generated by the `STROKE` attribute.

### `graphNext(name, current, resultVariable, [delta])`

Calculate the next index in the graph specified by `name`, storing the result
in the variable passed as `resultVariable`.

`current` is the index of the latest element, while `delta` is the size of the
step to take (defaulting to 1).

### `graphPreparePartition(name, number, cell, offset, resultVariable)`

Prepare the partition specified by `number` of the graph specified by `name` for
drawing, storing the largest value contained in it in the variable passed as
`resultVariable`.

The `cell` and `offset` arguments specify the location of the ring buffer
containing the graph data.

More information regarding `number` is available under
[`GRAPH_PARTITION_START`](#graph_partition_startname-number).

### `graphMergePreparationResults(partitionResult1, partitionResult2, resultVariable)`

Combine the preparation results of two partitions, storing the result in the
variable passed as `resultVariable`

### `graphDrawPartition(name, number, current, prepareState, cell, offset, layout)`

Draw the partition specified by `number` of the graph specified by `name` in the
layout specified by `layout`.

`cell` and `offset` specify the location of the ring buffer containing the graph
data to draw, while `current` is the index of the latest entry (relative of `offset`).
`prepareState` is the largest element contained in the ring buffer, most of the
time calculated by merging the preparation results of all partitions.

More information regarding `number` is available under
[`GRAPH_PARTITION_START`](#graph_partition_startname-number).

### `graphMaskPadding(name, layout)`

Draw a shape to cover any artifacts generated by the `STROKE` attribute of the
graph specified by `name` when drawn in the layout specified by `layout`.

The shape will be drawn using the current color and is only necessary should
`GRAPH_PADDING(name)` evaluate to anything greater than zero, in which case it
should be drawn after drawing the graph and before drawing any other elements.

## Configuration Attributes

- `POINTS`: number of data points in the graph

- `PARTITIONS`: number of partitions

- `POINT_DISTANCE`: distance between individual data points in pixels

- `STROKE`: width of the graph lines

## Examples

Example drawing a graph into a border, aligned to the right
(with the remaining space marked by a red border):

```mlog
include(`graphics/layout.m4')dnl
include(`graphics/borders.m4')dnl
include(`graphics/graphs.m4')dnl
dnl
BORDER_CONFIG(`border', `STYLE', `SIMPLE')dnl
BORDER_CONFIG(`border', `STROKE', 2)dnl
dnl
GRAPH_CONFIG(`graph', `POINTS', 10)dnl
GRAPH_CONFIG(`graph', `PARTITIONS', 1)dnl
GRAPH_CONFIG(`graph', `POINT_DISTANCE', 6)dnl
GRAPH_CONFIG(`graph', `STROKE', 11)dnl
dnl
LAYOUT_PAD(`DISPLAY', 3, `outer')dnl
BORDER_INNER_LAYOUT(`border', `outer', `inner')dnl
LAYOUT_SUBDIVIDE(`inner', `RIGHT', GRAPH_WIDTH(`graph'), `right', `left')dnl
dnl
set current 0
drawLoop:
draw clear 0 0 0
graphPreparePartition(`graph', 0, cell1, 0, prepared)

draw color 0 255 0 255
graphDrawPartition(`graph', 0, current, prepared, cell1, 0, `right')

draw color 0 0 0 255
graphMaskPadding(`graph', `right')

draw color 255 255 255 125
drawBorder(`border', `outer')

draw color 255 0 0 125
drawBorder(`border', `left')

drawflush display1
graphNext(`graph', current, current)
jump drawLoop always
```
